---
title: 'Detecting Poison Attacks using Neural Collapse Geometry'
date: 2024-11-12
permalink: /blogs/blog-4/
tags:
  - Neural Collapse
  - AI
---
<div style="margin-left: 20px; margin-right: 20px; margin-top: 20px;">
There are specifically two types of Data Poison Attacks - Untargeted & Targeted. However, detecting untergetted attacks is fairly simple as the overall accuracy of the model decreases. But it becomes a problem when the attack is targeted. Until and unless, the query for that specific label/feature is not triggered, you will never understand that you are hacked! There are methods to identify Targeted Attacks but lets try to figure out if these attacks can be identified / corrected using embeddings’ representation, and thus utilising the Neural Collapse to detect poisoned labels/features.<br/><br/>

# Try Google Colab 
<br/><br/>

Google Colab is a free cloud-based platform that allows you to write and execute Python code in a notebook format. <br/><br/>
1. Free access to GPUs and TPUs<br/><br/>
2. No installation required<br/><br/>
3. Collaboration made easy<br/><br/>
4. Integration with Google Drive<br/><br/>
To start using Google Colab, simply visit the [Colab Website](https://colab.research.google.com/) and sign in with your Google account. From there, you can create a new notebook or upload an existing one. To utilize GPU resources, navigate to the “Runtime” menu, select “Change runtime type,” and choose GPU or TPU as your hardware accelerator. 
<br/><br/>

# Try MacBook Air - 16 Neural Engines 
<br/><br/>

If you prefer working on a local machine, the MacBook Air with Apple’s M1, M2 or M3 chip presents an impressive alternative for running machine learning tasks. Working with Apple’s ecosystem, the new integration of Metal Performance Shaders (MPS) with PyTorch brings significant improvements to training acceleration. <br/><br/>

Apple's Metal is a low-level, high-performance graphics API that lets programmers connect directly to the GPU. MPS are a special group of highly optimised compute kernels in the Metal framework that speed up tasks that need a lot of computing power, like machine learning. The MPS framework is designed to work with Apple's GPUs, which lets you finetune speed for image processing, machine learning tasks, and other scientific computing tasks.<br/><br/>

Simply use the following line of code to use MPS in your local environment.<br/><br/>


<b>device = torch.device("mps" if torch.backends.mps.is_built() else "CPU")</b>
<br/><br/>
Now you’re ready to code!




</div>
