---
title: 'Generative AI - For Beginners'
date: 2024-12-16
permalink: /blogs/blog-6/
excerpt: "<div style='text-align: justify;'>Generative AI is transforming various industries by enabling machines to create content like images, music, and text. In this blog post, we'll explore how beginners can easily start using generative AI tools without the need for complex setups or powerful hardware."
tags:
  - Generative AI
  - Beginners
---
<div style="margin-left: 20px; margin-right: 20px; margin-top: 20px; margin-bottom: 30px;"> 

<h2>What is Generative AI?</h2>
Generative AI refers to a type of artificial intelligence that is capable of creating new content, such as images, text, music, and even videos, that closely resemble what a human might create. Unlike traditional AI systems that analyze and make predictions based on existing data, generative AI goes a step further by generating novel data. In essence, it can produce new things, whether that’s writing a story, designing a piece of art, or composing a song—based on patterns and information it has learned from vast amounts of data. Some common examples include AI-generated art (like DALL.E), music composition, and natural language generation (like GPT models).

The core of generative AI is in its ability to generalise and innovate, allowing it to produce content that is original, while still being informed by real-world examples.


<h2>How Does Generative AI Work?</h2>
Generative AI typically works through machine learning models that are trained on large datasets. There are several types of models used to build generative AI systems, but two of the most popular are Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs) and Variational Autoencoders (VAEs).

<ul>
<li>
Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs): GANs operate by combining two neural networks. The first network, known as the generator, generates fake data. The discriminator is the second network, and it examines the generated data to determine if it is real (from the training dataset) or fake. Over time, the generator improves its ability to generate data that the discriminator cannot distinguish from real data.
</li>
<li>
Variational Autoencoders (VAEs): VAEs are neural networks that generate new content from existing data. They work by encoding input data into a latent space and then reconstructing it to provide new data. 
</li>
</ul>

<h2>Applications of Generative AI</h2>

</div>
